### What is Rack
_____________
A web server interface that provides a fluid API for creating web apps
- Sinatra/Rails are Rack-based, since they adhere to Rack interface to communicate between the serve and client
- Rack as a protocol or specification
- Eliminating the necessity to "reinvent the wheel" whenever a new web server is to be supported
- Gives developers a consistent interface when working with Rack compatible servers (giving them a common language)

### What makes a Rack App
Rack is a specification for connecting application code to the web server.
A standard methodology for communicating HTTP requests/responses between client and server.qwe

1. Create a "rackup" file (config file - specifies what to run and how to run it)
2. The Rack app in the `.ru` file must be a Ruby object that responds to the method `call(env)`, `env` is the environment variables for this app.

`call` method returns an array with 3 elements:
1. Status Code - string or some data type that responds to `to_i`
2. Headers - form of key-value paids inside a hash. Key will be a header name. Value will be the value for that header
3. Response Body - Can be anything, as long as that object can respond to an `each` method. An `Enumerable` object will work, or a `StringIO` object, or custom object. ! String must be `yield`ed

### The point of `env` argument
`env` contains all the environment variables and info related to our HTTP request for `HelloWorld` app.

The `env` contains info regarding HTTP headers, as well as specific info about Rack.

The info is crucial for telling our server side how to process the request. Looking at the `REQUEST_PATH` may tell which resource this request is retrieving & its query parameters that comes with the request.

### View Templates
View template can help us store, maintain code that is related to display.
They are separate files that allows us to pre-process on the server side in a programming language (Ruby, Python, JavaScript), then translate the code into a string to return to the client (usually HTML)

### ERB
Allows us to embed Ruby directly into HTML.
ERB can process a special syntax that mixes Ruby into HTML, and produces a final HTML string.
We use a Ruby method to get some dynamic content. Then invoking that method by using the ERB syntax `<%= %>`
- `<%= %>` - will evaluate the embedded Ruby code, and include its return value in the HTML output. Example would be a method invocation
- `<% %>` - will only evaluate the Ruby code, does not include the return value in the HTML output. A method definition will be good use for this tag.

ERB can also be used to process entire files.

```html
<h1><%= @title %></h1>
```

When the template is rendered, the value for `@title` will replace the ERB tags. If `@title=="Book Viewer"`, the rendered output of the template would be:

```html
<h1>Book Viewer</h1>
```

#### Forms
- When a form is submitted, the browser makes a HTTP request.
- This HTTP request is included in the `action` attribute of the `form` element, which updates the path or URL in `form`
- The `method` attribute of the `form` determines if `GET` or `POST` is used
- The value of any `input` elements in the `form` will be sent as parameters
- The `name` attribute of the corresponding `input` element will determine the keys of these params

#### Is using POST as the HTTP request more secure than GET?
No. Any request is sent via plain text, regardless of the HTTP method used. It is equally vulnerable that attackers will see the request data within the request headers while transit on the network.

#### How can a web application be secured and cannot be viewed by other parties?
Serving the app over HTTPS.
